Now, to do the integration with GNS3 on my VM and this is my NPM VM, I'm going to change the
network adapter to use VM Net1 host only.
On my physical machine, I have 2 VM net adapters, VM Net1 and VM Net8 previously my virtual
machine was bridged to the physical adapter, but to allow it to be controlled by GNS3,
I'm going to change it to VM net1 host only.
I'm also going to change firewall settings and turn off the firewall so that I can ping the virtual
machine from my GNS3 routers
that'll just make it easier in the lab to do testing.
What I also need to do is shut down the virtual machine so that GNS3 can control it.
So once again, I've shut the machine down.
I've gone to network adapter settings and set it to use host-only
and I've disabled the firewall, what I'll do now is take a snapshot.
So that I can revert to it if there are any problems, so NPM installed, I did that quickly and made
a mistake.
So I'll go to VM
snapshot manager and change the name to NPM installed.
So now let's configure GNS3 and do the integration.
So I'm going to start up GNS3 in windows in this case because I'm using the GNS3 VM it boots
So you can see my VM is booting up, it's now successfully booted up and GNS3 then tells me
I can create a project, so I'm going to call this NPM 1.
Now, to integrate the NPM virtual machine with GNS3, I need to go to edit preferences in GNS
and I'm going to select VMware VMs because I'm using VMware workstation rather than virtual box.
I'm going to click new,
and in the VM list I can see my NPM virtual machine, I'm going to click finish and now I'm going
to click edit.
Go to network and check this option, allow login is free to use any configured VMware adapter.
I'm going to leave other settings at their defaults and click OK and click, OK, so what I've now done
is integrated NPM with GNS3 and I can build a topology consisting of routers and NPM.
In the next few videos, I'm going to show you how to integrate GNS3 and NPM.
Now, in this example, I'm using, the GNS3 VM because it's the recommended way of running GNS
3.
It also makes sense in this example, because I'm running NPM on a Windows seven VM within VMware workstation,
So I've got both NPM running in windows and GNS3 running within the GNS3 VM within VMware
workstation.
The initial topology that we're going to build consists of three routers connected via serial interfaces
and we'll advertise routes between these routers using EIGRP will also configure an out-of-band management
network and connect NPM to the out-of-band Ethernet network to allow NPM to manage the routers.
So to build our GNS3 topology, I'm going to drag 3 routers
to the workspace
as well as drag an Ethernet switch
to the workspace, and I'm going to run to these in the GNS3 VM.
I'll cable up the routers using the serial interfaces.
So
connect the routers via the serial interfaces.
I'll zoom in and let's view the interface labels.
Serial 0 is connected to serial 0 on router 2, serial 0 on router 1 is connected to serial 0
on router 2, serial 0/1 is connected to serial 0/0 on router 3.
We'll also connect FastEthernet interfaces on each router to the Ethernet switch.
This is going to be used for our management network.
So there are interfaces on the switch
and interfaces on the routers. I'll now bring NPM into the topology
and I'm going to connect that via the Ethernet interface to port 4 on the Ethernet switch.
So this allows NPM to manage the road is using the out-of-band management network, I'll configure the
routers with IP addresses on the serial interfaces first and enable routing and then I'll configure
the management interface.